PROJ-3 || Pozyx (#3)
SW805F20/report: sections/sprint-1/pozyx.tex

\section{Pozyx}
Pozyx is a hardware/software solution that is used to provide positioning with an accuracy of down to 10 cm \cite{pozyx}.

> It makes use of ultra-wideband in combination for positioning, which according to their documentation is more precise and efficient than traditional positioning systems such as WiFi, Bluetooth, RFID, and GPS.

Author: ```suggestion
It makes use of ultra-wideband in combination with machine learning for positioning, which according to their documentation is more precise and efficient than traditional positioning systems such as WiFi, Bluetooth, RFID, and GPS.
```

\\
Since the two major requirements for positioning in this project are precision and a high update rate in order to ensure that the players can have reliable data available, the Pozyx system seems like a good place to start.
\\

> For the update rate, the tags support update rates of up to 125 Hz for a single tag \cite{pozyx}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pozyx tags support update rates of up to 125 Hz for a single tag \cite{pozyx}.
```

The Creator system from Pozyx is sold with 4 anchors and 5 locatable tags.
An anchor is a stationary sensor used by the moveable tags to get their exact position.
\subsection{Finding the location of anchors}

> For finding the position of a given tag using the anchors, a trilateration method is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A trilateration method is used for finding the position of a given tag using the anchors.
```

This method uses basic geometry to estimate the position by measuring the distance to the anchors of which we know the position.
With this data, it is possible to draw a circle with a given radius.
If we use two anchors, we will have two intersection points which are the possible positions of the tag.

> This means that to find a two-dimensional location, we will need at least three anchors, which will lead to only a single point where all three circles intersect.

Reviewer: Overvejer om der måske skal noget paint i gang her for at vise konceptet??? Er der overskud???

> \section{Pozyx}

Reviewer 2: Benyt enten \\\\ Eller lad være med at skifte linje på den måde :(((

Pozyx is a hardware/software solution that is used to provide positioning with an accuracy of down to 10 cm \cite{pozyx}.

> It makes use of ultra-wideband in combination for positioning, which according to their documentation is more precise and effecient than traditional positioning systems such as WiFi, bluetooth, RFID and GPS.

Reviewer: ultra-wideband in combination med hvad for positioning???

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It makes use of ultra-wideband in combination for positioning, which according to their documentation is more precise and efficient than traditional positioning systems such as WiFi, bluetooth, RFID and GPS.
```

> Since the two major requirements for the positioning in this project are precision and a high update rate to ensure that the players are able to have reliable data available, the Pozyx system seems like a good place to start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the two major requirements for positioning in this project are precision and a high update rate in order to ensure that the players are able to have reliable data available, the Pozyx system seems like a good place to start.
```

Reviewer: Seems like a good place to start er sådan lidt underligt formuleret synes jeg. Hvor går vi så hen hvis vi bare starter der??

> For update rate, the tags support update rates up to 125 Hz for a single tag \cite{pozyx}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For update rate, the tags support update rates of up to 125 Hz for a single tag \cite{pozyx}.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The Creator system from Pozyx is sold with 4 anchors and 5 locatable tags.

Reviewer: what is an anchor

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

\subsection{Finding the location of anchors}
For finding the position of a given tag using the anchors, a trilateration method is used.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This method uses basic geometry to estimate the position by measuring the distance to the anchors of which we know the position.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

With this data, it is possible to draw a circle with the given radius.
If we use two anchors, we will have two intersection points which are the possible positions of the tag.
This means that to find a two dimensional location, we will need at least three anchors, which will lead to only a single point where all three circles intersect.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The issue with this approach is that the measurements are not perfect, which will cause the circles to not intersect at exactly one point.

Reviewer: sker det hver gang? måske tilføj et might

\subsection{Using UWB}
To find the position of the tags Pozyx makes use of radio waves. 
Radio waves travel at the speed of light, so by dividing the time of travel between anchors with the speed of light, the distance between them can be found.
Because the speed of light is so fast the time measure needs to be very accurate to get the correct distance.

> To achieve this the anchors makes use of ultra-wide bandwidth (UWB) \cite{pozyx-UWB}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve this the anchors make use of ultra-wide bandwidth (UWB) \cite{pozyx-UWB}.
```

> The ultra-wideband signals that the Pozyx devices utilises have a bandwith of 500 MHz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ultra-wideband signals that the Pozyx devices utilize have a bandwith of 500 MHz.
```

This makes the wavelength very short and by detecting the peak of a narrow "pulse", an accurate time can be found.

> High bandwidth means faster downloads which means everyone wants to use it but if everyone were to use the same frequency the signals would interfere with eachother, therefore the use of high frequency signals is tightly regulated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
High bandwidth means faster downloads which means most people would prefer it, but if everyone were to use the same frequency the signals would interfere with eachother, therefore the use of high frequency signals is tightly regulated.
```

Pozyx is able to use 500 MHz beacuse it transmits at a very low power.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

\subsection{Two-way-ranging}

> We are using the Pozyx Creator kit lite which uses the Two-way-ranging (TWR) protocol for positioning \cite{pozyx-Positioning}.

Reviewer: hvis creator kit lite er navnet skal Kit og Lite også stå med stort?

A tag calculates its position by communicating with the anchors one by one, getting the distance from the anchor to itself.
Once it has the distance from 3 anchors it can compute its own position by means of trilateration.
\\

> If there is multiple tags being used at once one tag will be made the master tag and the other tags become the slave tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are multiple tags being used at once, one tag is made the master tag and the other tags become the slave tags.
```

> The master tag instructs th slave tags to report their position to the master tag one by one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The master tag instructs the slave tags to report their position to the master tag one by one.
```

> The master tag instructs th slave tags to report their position to the master tag one by one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The master tag instructs the slave tags to report their position to the master tag one by one.
```

> The master tag is then usually connected to a computer which can then use the position data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The master tag is then usually connected to a computer which can use the position data.
```

> This technic does not scale well as all the slave tags have to be within radio range of the master tag so use of huge areas will is not possible.

Reviewer: technique?

> This technic does not scale well as all the slave tags have to be within radio range of the master tag so use of huge areas will is not possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This technic does not scale well as all the slave tags have to be within radio range of the master tag so spreading them across huge areas is not possible.
```

> Instead of a tag being the master it is possible to use a anchor this makes it easier to have a computer attached as the anchors are stationary unlike the tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of a tag being the master it is possible to use an anchor.
This makes it easier to have a computer attached, as the anchors are stationary unlike the tags.
```
